Objective
In this lesson, we will examine the skills and traits that empower insurance leaders to rise to the challenges of a dynamic environment.
Let's begin.
Becoming a Key Player in the Insurance Value Chain
One of my favorite things about our industry is how there are so many facets, so many critical roles, so many people, all with different backgrounds and skill sets. But we all work together and play an important part.
Let me give you some examples. Actuarial science professionals, or data science and analytics professionals, bring an incredibly technical and analytical skill set to our industry. They use a combination of mathematics, statistics, economics, and finance to analyze data and help insurance companies make data-driven predictions and decisions about risk.
Other professionals, like agents, brokers, sales and marketing representatives, are fantastic communicators and relationship builders, often working directly with insureds to help them manage and insure their risks.
What about underwriters? They're often detail oriented and investigative. In many cases, they take a creative, consultative, problem-solving approach to providing coverage for insureds and their risks.
And of course, claims professionals. They're at the heart of what we do as an industry, helping people put their lives back together. Claims professionals are often empathetic, communicative, and resourceful.
These are just a few examples of the important skill sets and roles in our industry. Keep in mind, many skills are transferable and interchangeable between roles, so your career may not be totally linear. Claims professionals sometimes become underwriters. Underwriters may leverage their skill sets and knowledge to take a new career step as brokers. There are endless opportunities to challenge ourselves and grow professionally in this industry.
Now, think about your risk management and insurance career trajectory, where you want to be in 5, 10, 20 years. If you proactively learn from others - from your colleagues, other departments, other industry roles, segments, and specialties - and leverage the diversity and collaboration in our industry, it can help propel you to be one of tomorrow's industry leaders.
We've joined a great industry, and we have a lot to look forward to in our careers. What will you do next?
As risk management and insurance professionals, we have opportunities to follow our passions and become experts in our field. Maybe you grew up riding horses? You're in a unique position to help equestrians understand and manage their risks. Maybe you're passionate about art? You can become an expert in helping museums and private art collectors manage their risks.
The opportunities are endless to specialize, to help insureds holistically manage their risk, and to make a positive impact on the people, businesses, and society that we serve.
Check Your Understanding
Here's a scenario to consider. Doris is a customer service representative for a large insurer. Because she's trying to advance within the organization, she thinks it would be a good career move to learn more about data analytics and data science in general. If you were her manager, what reasons could you provide to further encourage her to pursue this line of thinking?
Feedback
Here's the answer. It's critical for every insurer function - claims, underwriting, sales, marketing, and so on - to include individuals who can work with data and effectively collaborate with data science teams. The proliferation of insurtech and risktech in every area of insurer operations is generating a wealth of predictive information that can help insurers more accurately assess risk, predict fraud, identify efficiencies, and set strategy. But each of these actions requires a human's perspective to make sure the data is gathered and applied in the appropriate context. As a result, those who can effectively work with data are well-positioned for future leadership roles.
Perception versus Reality
Let's examine an important concept: perception versus reality in our industry.
First, let's look at the perception. Some believe that insurers will become irrelevant as technology further empowers the prediction and prevention of insurable losses.
Now, here's the reality. The rise of big data and predictive analytics will reduce the frequency and severity of losses, but it won't eliminate them. So, insurance will still be needed for many traditional loss exposures. In addition, insurance will continue to spur innovation by providing a means of managing risks related to new exposures for which little data exists.